>> Will Sentance: We're
about to execute code.
I said there's two things
to executing code.
Two parts to it, one, going through the
code as given, line by line, and doing it.
Two, having a place to see
stuff that shows up, data.
That is literally what
it takes to run code.
A function being run is
like a mini program.
Like a mini-app, like it's some code to
run therefore, we need those two things.
The thread of execution, the ability to go
through the code line-by-line and do it.
And a little store of data,
the memory, to store anything that shows
up while we're inside that function.
Any functions, variables,
constant stored inside that function only.
Those two things together have a very,
very profound sounding name.
Does anybody happen to know?
If I put my arms up like this,
what that might be called?
A brand new
>> Speaker 2: Execution contest.
>> Will Sentance: My, okay if people
are watching this the very first time,
this first encounter, they're like, okay.
All right, exactly, an execution context.
That is exactly right people.
Created to run the code of a function,
has two parts, we've seen them already.
Thread of execution because
we're now gonna be going
through the code of multiplied by
two line by line and a memory,
a little space to store data and functions
to get declared inside that function.
So that's right for running multiplied by
two before we're able to move on to any
further code, we're gonna create
a brand new execution context.
Here it is, I'm gonna draw the big box.
Look at this, this is what it is.
We, by the way, see one already.
This was the big one,
this is called the global one.
This is the one that as soon as we start
running our file of code, we create what's
called a global execution context for
running the overall file of code.
That thing is the main program.
As soon as we start running a little
function, a little mini bit of code,
we create a mini program,
a mini execution context.
Here it is, I've made this very big.
There it is, and
it has as I say, two parts.
One, the memory,
a place to store things that get
declared inside multiplied by two.
We call it the local memory because
it's just, local means nearby.
It's just stuff that's gonna be available
while we're running the code and
multiply it by two,
not available out here.
And anything which we announce or declare
inside this function, any variable for
it, you got it?
Stored in here, not in here, all right.
So, into this function we go and
what is the first thing that
we're going to do inside of here?
Ethan, what is the first
thing we're gonna do inside?
>> Ethan: Declare the const result.
>> Will Sentance: Ethan's almost right,
that's the second thing we're going to do.
But Ethan,
whenever we run code in a function,
the first thing we always
handle Ethan is what?
Before we hit the body the function we
handle, we've got some stuff with sort of
inserting into the function that's going
to show up inside the local memory.
And that is?
>> Ethan: So input number.
>> Will Sentance: Excellent.
It's gonna be set to what?
>> Ethan: Three.
>> Will Sentance: He's spot on,
to num which evaluated to 3.
There it is, label, value.
No different to out here.
But these ones have special names.
What's this one known as people?
>> Speaker 2: Parameter.
>> Will Sentance: And this one here folks?
>> Speaker 2: Argument.
>> Will Sentance: Exactly.
So the placeholder input number that's
gonna receive when the function ends up
being run an actual input,
actual value, actual number.
That number that gets passed
in is known as our argument.
The placeholder that awaits
it is known as our parameter.
They are fundamentally different.
I mean that two sides of the same coin,
but
they are fundamentally different things.
One is the label,
one is the thing stored in that label.
Okay, then we hit result and
assign it, Ethan, what?
When it's resolved gonna
also have a stored in it?
>> Ethan: Input number times two.
>> Will Sentance: Which is gonna be?
>> Ethan: Six.
>> Will Sentance: Three by two is gonna be
six, excellent, thank you.
To Ethan and
then the final it was an interesting one.
We've got Dan, return, actually hold
on Dan, I've asked you lots of time.
So I'm going to mix it up,
I'm going to turn to Jason.
Jason, what is this
final line saying here?
>> Jason: It's saying that locate
the block of memory that is bound
to the label resolve and ship it out of-
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, I like that.
I, all right, you really like that.
It says, go look at,
what does this word resolve mean?
Javachip doesn't know automatically, so it
goes hunting for it in our local memory.
Finds it's a number six and
then takes that number and
ships it returns it shoots it out.
What's literally gonna happen people
is that the call to the running of
the invocation doing the same thing or
multiply by two and
number three is gonna evaluate to.
That means it's gonna literally
turn into the value that,
people value is this this,
this the anything that's stored.
Not the label,
which we fancy called the identifier,
is the thing stored as a value.
We're going to evaluate, that is to
say we're going to turn this command
the thing you can't store
into the result value and
look at that is that you're going
to evaluate into the number six.
And then that output is equal to six and
there it is, returned out and
assigned to output.
My goodness.
All right, so our thread of execution.
Wove in because by the way in JavaScript,
how many threads of execution?
That's it, I'd say how many things
can we do at a time people?
Well, I've asked two different
questions to pronounce is there,
how many threads of
execution do we have Adam?
>> Adam: Just one.
>> Will Sentance: One, that means
how many things we do at a time?
What are the odds with the same.
Okay, so
we have already one thread of execution.
As soon as you want to start and execute
a function, we have to have a thread weave
in and start running those lines of code
and then it's going to weave back out.
We can't continue on down the page
while we're running that function.
We don't do two things simultaneously.
We're gonna see more about that with
a synchronous JavaScript to come tomorrow.
All right, so
our thread of execution weaves in it then
weaves back out with into global where
we hit what line, wasn't it Mark?
>> Mark: Mark.
>> Will Sentance: Mark,
sorry Mark, we hit what line Mark?
>> Mark: Const new output.
>> Will Sentance: Declaring new outputs,
there it is.
Mark, do we know what
to assign new output?
Do we know what to store
in new output yet?
>> Mark: No.
>> Will Sentance: Because we gonna
go and do what?
>> Mark: We have to
create another context.
>> Will Sentance: Execution context, we
gonna go and execute what function Mark?
>> Mark: Multiply by two.
>> Will Sentance: With the argument of?
>> Mark: 10.
>> Will Sentance: Excellent,
I'm gonna push Mark to be as complete as
possible with his technical communication.
There it is,
there's our beautiful execution context.
That's better than the last one.
And into it we go and
I know this is incredibly repetitive,
well, that's the nature of function.
We save it once, we can use it again and
again, there we go.
Into we go and input number everybody, is
assigned what, our argument of the value?
>> Mark: 10.
>> Will Sentance: 10,
well done, and then result is
assigned 10 by two, which is 20.
Then we return the value of results
out into that global label new output.
And there it is, people.
My goodness, all right.
That is the core two out of three
parts of our JavaScript platform.